I'm not really interested in critique
for the sake of critique criticism for
the sake of criticism if I were I think
there'd be better targets for it than
voices within the vegan movement
I was joking around with Tcat lately I
shouldn't even say I was joking it
wasn't a joke I talked to him about
wouldn't it be great to have a YouTube
channel devoted to criticism of
motivational speakers you know
motivational speakers these career
motivational speakers who publish books
self-help books and you know these kind
of pseudo spiritual motivational
speakers in 2018 and you can imagine
that being a really important area of
study when you think about it that
should be like an academic discipline at
at least one university somewhere in the
world but I don't think it is I don't
think that's covered by anthropology you
don't and it's covered by departments of
religion but to have someone in a
rigorous and consistent way develop a
critique of what's going on with
motivational speaking that would be
pretty worthwhile that has knock-on
effects throughout our society it really
does I mean I remember the old days some
of that stuff would get on The Oprah
Winfrey Show
and it impacted the way people spoke I
mean it impacted the vocabulary of
American culture when Oprah Winfrey you
know featured in one of these so there
are a lot of areas where I do think you
know criticism for the sake of criticism
is important but you might not guess
this about me I really don't feel that
way about voices in the vegan movement I
actually do have a pretty high tolerance
for people just coming on and talking
about their feelings and their
experiences especially if it's sincere
especially if they're keeping it real
and everyone's gonna do that in their
own imperfect way reflecting their own
biases and their own interests and
that's good it's not just okay it's
really a wonderful thing in this video
I'm talking about a relatively new show
called
the vegan view I don't have any problem
with the format I don't have any problem
with the basic thesis of the show I do
dislike the show in terms of its quality
tone and just the level of substance it
offers but I say this openly in the past
I have really talked to other vegans
about creating a TV show like that
myself
I'd love to have six vegans sitting
around a table and not talking about
veganism I'd love to talk about politics
and ecology or doing a book review like
every week the six of us all read the
same book then come in talk about that
book and then talk about politics and
other things I love it if we did that
and and veganism was never even the
topic of the show veganism came up in
passing were just happening to people
with a vegan perspective on ecology
politics history what I think I'd be
fantastic and have never been able to
get it together because I still don't
have that core of five or six people who
will cooperate with me building future
of the vegan movement it's a big
disappointment my life but at this point
I'm gonna pack up and move on I put five
years and try to build a foundation for
vegan activism didn't work out
moving on to we hope greener pastures
movie go out to much much more difficult
pastures most of you can't imagine just
how difficult Chinese is languages and
in hitching my future more than ever to
Chinese as a language it's a huge
difficulty but the vegan view got their
act together to do exactly that format
that I myself wanted to do in the past
and the problem I want to draw attention
to is not a shallow one from my
perspective it's it's relatively team
and I express it as follows most of us
at some point in high school maybe for
you this happened in junior high maybe
it happened in middle school maybe it
happened in university but
stereotypically around the start of high
school many of us figure out that
sincerity equals vulnerability we figure
out that earnestness is uncool and that
we live in a culture especially in white
Western english-speaking culture where
the very definition of cool involves a
kind of sneering detachment a kind of
constant snarky insincerity it involves
broadcasting to the people around you at
all times that you don't care
you don't care about the consequences of
your actions maybe you don't care
sincerely about whatever the cause is
you're debating or discussing that you
have a kind of withering contempt for
all these things around you now today in
American culture Canadian culture even I
think Australian culture and so on I
think in english-speaking cultures
around the world this has become
synonymous with being a teenager that
you describe someone is having a
teenaged attitude and a lot of this is
packaged into that term teenager and
this concept of cool cool being the
opposite of warm then goes on through
different permutations as people start
to take on more of a mid-twenties
culture a thirtysomething culture as
they go from high school to university
to the workplace or if he didn't go to
university as you go from one
professional mill year to the next and
what I see on the vegan view
consistently he is a middle-class
middle-aged version of what it is to be
cool attached to veganism as a movement
the whole message that I've seen again
and again on their Channel and I do fact
check just now for making this video I
went and made sure I found three
different videos quickly that are that
exhibit this so you know I'm nights not
every video I'm not gonna say it's all
there videos are on this theme but it
comes up again and again they're making
videos repeatedly explaining to you the
viewer that what it means to be vegan in
the 21st century what it means to be a
good vegan what it means to be a cool
vegan is to let people know all the time
that you don't really care that you're
not serious about it that it doesn't
mean anything to you that you're not
earnestly out here trying to save the
planet or trying to save the lives of
animals or even trying to improve other
people's health
those of you who are regular viewers of
this channel will know that of the three
big issues ecology ethics and health I
care the least about health but I still
care it can be very real and very raw
and very meaningful to sit down with
somebody and tell them yeah yeah
I know your doctor told you that
Alzheimer's disease arrives with no
particular cause and there's no
treatment and there's no cure but here's
what I have to tell you Alzheimer's
disease is cholesterol when cholesterol
forms plaques in your arteries or around
your heart when it causes you heart
problems we have one set of names for it
when cholesterol forms plaques and
causes problems within your brain
impacting the circulation of the brain
and ultimately the transmission of
single signals between neurons and axons
in the brain when cholesterol disrupts
brain function we call it Alzheimer's
disease it's not that it's even the
cause of Alzheimer's disease it's a very
meaningful simplification or explanation
to say cholesterol in the brain is
Alzheimer's disease okay to have that
kind of conversation with someone in a
caring way to say yeah I care enough
about you to tell you that the
explanation your doctor gave you for why
your father or grandfather had this
condition is [ __ ] and that it
impacts you and your diet and the
decisions you make today
alright it's not cool it's caring its
earnest and in your struggle to be
sincere and communicate this to someone
you can make a fool of yourself you can
upset them you can become upset yourself
to use the terms that the vegan voice
uses you can be an [ __ ] it's true but
a crucial part of the vegan message
is care be willing to be an [ __ ] be
willing to be wrong and make mistakes
and learn from your mistakes all under
the heading of doing the best you can so
I've mentioned this before probably more
than a year ago there was a moment in a
vice column in the newspapers that
stayed with me someone wrote in to the
advice columnist saying their situation
was they had a crush on someone at work
a co-worker
I think it was a man he had a crush on a
woman he said this this woman at work
she's gonna be reassigned to another
office she's being promoted or something
she's not gonna be working in the same
place anymore and I really want to talk
to her I really want to ask her out for
coffee but I'm afraid of being an
[ __ ] and the advice columnist replied
and said guess what true romance and
true love involves taking risks it
involves you right now committing to be
an [ __ ] now
I'm the last person to give you carp
launch on this and last person to say
just go there and scream in people's
faces don't you realize that by eating
pork you're causing Alzheimer's disease
something it's not the point you can
make your best possible life remember
there's love involved here right there's
love actually in both examples do you
love someone enough to tell them that in
a sense their father got Alzheimer's
disease it was his own fault
I'm not saying to do that out of a sense
of hatred a sense of Khattab those are
hard conversation to have and we're
talking about the easiest category here
we're just talking about health you get
into the ethics and ecology it's harder
and it demands love and engagement and
this kind of risk to me okay you feel
some kind of love towards your coworker
I'm good at this stuff I could easily go
over to a co-worker and say some stone
cold detached down-to-earth hey you know
I've always felt like you and I had a
lot in common
but you know we've never really had the
chance to sit down and talk and now I
know you're gonna move to another office
so I may never see you again you know
what I really like is for us to go out
to lunch grab a cup of coffee together
and find out if I'm right or if I'm
wrong and you know if we don't have
anything in common that's cool but you
know if you want to make the time like
here's my email here's my phone number
okay and it's possible you do that and
you get charged with harassment you
could you could be called an [ __ ] and
you could have this person say on
Twitter you're a piece of [ __ ] and guess
what talking about your feelings talking
about wanting to take someone up for
lunch telling someone you have a crush
on them that can be construed as even
criminal you know and you've got to do
it you've got to take that that risk and
telling someone that they're responsible
for something deeply unethical deeply
environmentally reckless something
that's harmful to their health under
those three headings all those things
those regard a really high level of
commitment I do not think veganism is
cool
I think veganism is never going to be
cool I think veganism is warm that's
where I really differ from this whole
approach represented by the vegan view
and it's also represented by my usual
nemesis unnatural vegan where all they
want to broadcast again and again and
again is I don't really care this
doesn't really matter to me there are no
real consequences I don't you know it's
fine it's cool I'm cool you're cool if
someone you really respected as a
colleague in the vegan movement then
comes out of the closet and admits that
they've been eating salmon and chicken
eggs to treat sometimes some type of
material some type of mysterious made-up
illness they think they have or even if
it's a real illness I'm alluding to a
current situation with Tim shieff I'm
not even questioning here whether or not
that should matter to you like in an
objective sense like that you that you
should objectively feel offended
can't we be real can't we be honest
enough to say well man I'm I'm
devastated I'm so disappointed in you
like this you're someone I looked up to
you're someone I worked with and your
status your position in this movement
ethically ecologically etc is is
predicated on you being able to maintain
this discipline and you've let me down
like that's real like maybe there's
going to be agony or whatever and you
know what if you express that maybe it's
gonna come across as an unreasonable
reproach maybe people are gonna see you
as an [ __ ] even if you're trying not
to be an [ __ ] and maybe it's gonna be
perceived as harassment right but I mean
my position and all this is you know
keep it real or get the [ __ ] out
veganism is not cool veganism is warm I
hope as you engage in whatever kind of
activism it is you're capable of on
whatever scale however miniscule or ever
enormous you never lose that warmth to
reach out to people and let them know
their ethical decisions matter their
sense of ecologic aspossible 'ti matters
and yes ultimately what they're doing
and either promoting or destroying their
health matters too and these are all
issues of right and wrong